---
name: HW 8
tools: [Python, Java, Altair]
image: assets/pngs/HW8.png
description: This is the Jekyll page for my HW8.
custom_js:
  - vega.min
  - vega-lite.min
  - vega-embed.min
  - justcharts
---


### Here is the first plot
<vegachart schema-url="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/json/state_dewpoint.json" style="width: 100%"></vegachart>
Write-up: The first graph is a 'rect' figure in Java, which is equivalent to gridheatmap in bqplot in Python. This is a visualization of the relationship between states and their dew points (the temperature below which water comes out of the air as drops). Since the figure is written in Java, I paste the code into a Python environment and add some code to make it fit the Altair condition (alt.Chart.from_dict). Therefore, both Java and Python encoding types are involved in my Jupyter notebook. However, I didn't make any transformations to the data because they are both numerical variables, and I think the values make sense. On the color scale, I use the count of dew points to describe color, with darker colors indicating more counts. This can also help people understand what the frequent dew point values are for every state and whether there are any differences among states.

### Here is the second plot
<vegachart schema-url="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/json/state_humidity.json" style="width: 100%"></vegachart>
Write-up: The second plot is a bar chart of the relationship between states and their mean humidity. This is the same figure I plotted last time in HW7 as the second figure. My codes include Python and Java because the plot was written in Java, and I apply it in the Altair environment in Python ('state_humidity = alt.Chart.from_dict') so that it can be successfully read and plotted. 'state' is an ordinal variable, and 'humidity' is a numerical variable. I choose to keep all data records without transformation. But I do calculate the mean humidity as my x values instead of using the original 'humditiy' values. "The color scale (value = mean humidity, scheme = spectral) is to help the audience identify and compare states’ mean humidity more easily. As you can see, states with lower mean humidity have warmer colors, which match the feeling of drought in real life; states with higher mean humidity have colors of green or blue with rising darkness to reveal a large amount of rain."

### Here is the combined plot
<vegachart schema-url="{{ site.baseurl }}/assets/json/side_by_side_from_dict.json" style="width: 100%"></vegachart>
Write-up: I use the interval selection tool to combine the state-dew point figure with the state-humidity figure. If the audience chooses an interval on the first figure (i.e., an area containing dew point data for Alabama, Alaska, and Arizona), the second figure will plot the corresponding mean of humdity (mean humidity for these three states). As you can see, the two figures keep their color scales (colors in figure 2 will change with respect to actions that happen in figure 1). I like this distinction because people can read how state humidity varies within different groups and whether it is relevant to dew point values.



<!-- these are written in a combo of html and liquid --> 

<div class="left">
{% include elements/button.html link="https://github.com/SchulizBee/SchulizBee.github.io/tree/main/_data/bfro_reports_fall2022.txt" text="The Data" %}
</div>

<div class="right">
{% include elements/button.html link="https://github.com/SchulizBee/SchulizBee.github.io/tree/main/python_notebooks/Workbook.ipynb" text="The Analysis" %}
</div>

